Prompt Engineering is a way of asking or interacting with a Chatbot for getting the desired output.

Types of Prompts:
1) Zero Shot Prompt:
Ex: Write a Python program to classify the even and odd numbers out of the given list of numbers.

Usecase: A customer support chatbot to analyse the user emotions.

2) Few-Shot Prompt:
Ex: Write a Python program to classify the even and odd numbers out of the given list of numbers.
For Example: [1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 11, 12, 15, 18]
even = [2, 8, 12, 18]
odd = [1, 3, 7, 11, 15]

Usecase: Generating the product description by giving 3 to 4 sample descriptions.

3) Chain of Thoughts Prompt (CoT):
Ex: Write a python program to find the sum of given numbers using while loop with step by step explanation.

Usecase: To learn or explore new things with step by step explanation.

4) Self Consistency Prompt (Extension of CoT):
Ex: Solve the problem with step by step reasoning, then verify: new problem

Usecase: Whenever the Accuracy needs to be high. Ex: Medical or Financial advisory chatbot

5) Role/Persona Prompt:
Ex: You are a Python Expert, I need a python program to print the star pattern using loop.

Usecase: For proper expertise, we can use this prompt.

6) System / Instruction Prompt:
Ex: Always answer in one or 2 sentence for any question that I ask. What is the capital of India?

Usecase: To maintain the Consistency in the Answer for sharp answers (To maintain the company brand and tone - Within Boundary)

7) Negative Prompt:
Ex: Explain about Python without using the keywords: programming, scripting, AI, ML and Similar to English.

Usecase: For Sensitive Topics

NLP - Natural Language Processing
NLP is the way of understanding the Human language to process the output.

Core Levels of NLP:
1) Tokenization:
Ex: I like to learn AI Prompting
6 tokens (Each word is a token)

2) Part of Speech Tagging:
understanding the tense of the sentence
(Classifying the noun, pronoun, verb, adjective)

3) NER (Named Entity Recognition):
Used to find the names, places, dates and mode

4) Sentiment Analysis:
For finding the tone: Positive, Negative & Mixed or Neutral

5) Language Modelling:
Translating the languages

6) Semantic Parsing:
understanding the meaning and relationship

